Low students and Balcom in this lecture we're going to talk about regular expressions and recommend
regular expressions are special text strings that are used to search for and match patterns in text
to make the search expression more specific.
It can work together with the grep command the grep command is a general regular expression parser that
that's what stands for such as a file for string latches matching a giving regular expression and by
default it prints out any line containing a string that matches it.
There are many useful options which can be set for grep which affect its output.
Are we going to use some examples in order to demonstrate how to use grep and regular expressions is
by actually typing in the command grep.
And suppose we are we want to print all the user names that begin with the letter E in a were at c password
file.
So in order to do that we'll use single quotes the carrot sign the end of code and we're going to check
our ETSI passport file to see if passport file has anything that begin with the letter.
It has nothing in it.
So it came up empty.
OK let's try another one group again the card the end of Code sorry this time not a word try J.
Let's do the password again.
And there we have an entry.
So we have a user named Joseph ETSI password file and he showed up his entire entry from the password
file.
So this is a quick way off instead of actually doing a more on Etsy password are doing a V-I of the
password.
We were able to locate him and without even knowing Joseph how to spell jail I suppose if you are one
of those people whose spelling is really bad and you don't want to guess then all I did is just use
the first character of his name.
And we were able to pull the entire name and the entire password entry for him and I knowing this password
file is another user whose name starts with a capital G.
So of course by default grep only picks up stuff in lowercase but in Linux remember Lorqess supposed
if there's a Joeseph with a capital G he is different from Joeseph with the lowercase g.
So we get to run the same comment except the difference is going to be grep.
Gosh I am still going to search for J.
Starting with J.
And in a D.
C password file.
And this time it picks it picks up two names.
What Joseph.
One with a capital one with the lowercase g and this is due to the fact that we have added AI that we
want to see everything that starts a J.
Regardless of what case it is.
So as you can see this becomes fairly easy and especially if you are writing a script you can use the
grep command gets used a lot in scripting also and you can parse different values from a file without
actually going into the file and your script will be able to do it automatically.
Let's do one more example.
And we get a graph.
For Let's say H but instead of beginning with H we going to say something that ends with H.
So how do you do that grep h dollar sign.
Us going to tell it to look for names are anything that ends with H.
And as you can see all the bash bin bash.
This is not specifically for users it's for anything that ends with an h.
So Ben Bash is in my current file because it's not too populated right now so the only thing he could
find was the bin bash directory.